1. To start the lab session, choose Start Lab in the upper-right corner of the page.
o The lab session starts.
o A timer displays in the upper-right corner of the page and shows the time remaining in
the session.
Tip: To refresh the session length at any time, choose Start Lab again before the timer
reaches 0:00.
2. Before continuing, wait until the lab environment is ready. The environment is ready
when the circle icon next to the AWS link in the upper-left corner turns green.
3.
4. To return to these instructions, choose the Readme link in the upper-right corner.
5. To connect to the AWS Management Console, choose the AWS link in the upper-left
corner, above the terminal window.
4. In the search box to the right of Services, search for and choose EC2 to open the EC2
console.
5. In the left navigation pane, choose EC2 Dashboard to ensure you are on the
dashboard page.
6. Choose the Launch instance button in the middle of the page, then select Launch
instance from the dropdown menu.
7. Choose the X on the right side of the blue banner to close the Opt-out to the old
experience dialog.
8. In the Name and tags panel:
o For Name enter Web Server 1
9. In the Application and OS Images panel:
o For Quick Start, keep the default Amazon Linux chosen
10.In the Instance type panel:
o Keep the default instance type, t2.micro.
11.In the Key pair (login) panel:
o From the Key pair name - required dropdown list, choose vockey.
12.In the Network settings section, choose Edit.
o From the Subnet dropdown list, choose the existing subnet in Availability Zone us-
east-1a.
o For Security group name - required, enter Web Server security group
o For Description - required, enter Security group for my web server
o In the Inbound security groups rules section, Select Remove to remove the default
rule.
o Choose Add security group rule to configure new rule as below
 Type : HTTP
 Source type : Anywhere
13.In the Configure storage panel:
o Keep the default storage configuration.
14.Scroll down, and expand Advanced Details Panel, the configure:
o Scroll down to the field User data.
o Copy the following code and paste it into the User data field.
#!/bin/bash
yum update -y
yum -y install httpd
systemctl enable httpd
systemctl start httpd
echo '<html><h1>Hello World! This is server 1.</h1></html>' > /var/www/html/index.html
15.Choose Launch instance .
16.On the next screen, Choose View all instances.
17.Before you continue, wait for your instance to display the following:
o Instance state: Running
o Status check: 2/2 checks passed
18.Select the Web Server 1 instance that you created earlier in this lab.
19.In the Details tab copy the Public IPv4 address of your instance, then open a new tab
in your web browser and paste in and load the address.
It should display the web server page with the message *Hello World! This is server 1.**
20.Return to the EC2 Management Console browser tab.
21.Select the Web Server 1 instance.
22.From the Actions menu, choose Images and templates, then choose Launch more
like this
A Launch an instance page opens.
23.In the Name and tags pane, change the Name to Web Server 2.
24.In the Key pair (login) section, from the Key pair name - required dropdown list,
choose vockey.
25.From the Subnet dropdown list, choose the existing subnet in Availability Zone us-
east-1b.
26.Scroll down, and expand the Advanced Details section, then scroll down to the User
data field.
27.Use copy and paste to replace the existing code with the code shown below.
#!/bin/bash
yum update -y
yum -y install httpd
systemctl enable httpd
systemctl start httpd
echo '<html><h1>Hello World! This is server 2.</h1></html>' > /var/www/html/index.html
28.Choose Launch instance .
29.On the next screen, Choose View all instances.
30.Before you continue, wait for your instance to display the following:
Instance state: Running
Status check: 2/2 checks passed
31.Select the Web Server 2 instance.
32.In the Details tab copy the Public IPv4 address of your instance, then open a new tab
in your web browser and paste in and load the address.
33.This will open a new tab in your web browser and display the web server page with the
message Hello World! This is server 2.
34.Back in the EC2 console, in the left navigation pane, under Load Balancing, choose
Load Balancers.
35.Select Create Load Balancer.
36.Under Application Load Balancer, choose Create.
37.In the Basic Configuration panel:
o For Name, enter myloadbalancer.
38.In the Network mapping panel:
o Under Mappings, select the Availability Zones that you created the two instances in.
For example, us-east-1a and us-east-1b.
39.
40.In the Security Groups panel:
o Choose Web Server security group from the drop down menu.
o After you close the drop down menu, choose the X next to the default security group to
remove it.
41.In the Listeners and routing panel:
o Chose Create target group.
This will open a new tab in your browser.
42.
43.In the Basic Configuration panel:
o Kepp the target type set to Instances.
o For Target group name enter myalbTG
44.In the Health checks panel:
o For Health check path, enter index.html after the forward slash ( / )
o The path should look like the following: /index.html
45.Choose Next.
46.In the Register targets page, in the Available instances panel, check the boxes next
to the Web Server 1 and Web Server 2 instances that you created in this lab.
47.Choose Include as pending below.
Verify that both instances now appear in the Targets list below.
48.Choose Create target group.
49.Return to the Load Balancers console tab in the browser.
50.In the Listeners and routing section, under Listener choose the refresh icon.
51.From the dropdown, chose the myalbTG target group you created.
52.Scroll down and chose Create load balancer.
When the load balancer is created, a Successfully created load balancer message
displays.
53.Chose View load balancer.
52.Select the load balancer that you just created, and choose the Description tab in the
lower pane.

53.In the Basic Configuration section, copy the DNS name value to your clipboard.

54.Open a new tab in your web browser, paste the DNS name that you just copied, and
press Enter.
If your load balancer is working, the Hello World! message displays. Notice whether the
message says This is server 1 or This is server 2.

55.Refresh the browser tab a few times.
Notice when the message changes between This is server 1 and This is server 2. When
the message changes, it means that the load balancer has directed you to the web
server on the other EC2 instance that you created in this lab.

Lab complete
Congratulations! You have completed the lab.

56.Log out of the AWS Management Console.
o In the upper-right corner of the page, choose your user name. Your user name begins
with voclabs/user.
o Choose Sign Out.

57.Choose End Lab at the top of this page, and then select Yes to confirm that you want to
end the lab.

© 2022, Amazon Web Services, Inc. and its affiliates. All rights reserved. This work may
not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without prior written permission
from Amazon Web Services, Inc. Commercial copying, lending, or selling is prohibited.