4. Choose the Services menu, locate the Compute services, and choose Elastic Beanstalk.
5. Choose Create Application.
6. For Application name, enter a name for your application; for example, MyLabApp
7. For Platform, select PHP.
8. For Application code, select Sample application.
9. Choose Next.
10. Under Existing service roles choose the drop-down and select EMR_EC2_DefaultRole.
11. Under EC2 key pair choose the drop-down and select vockey.
12. Under EC2 instance profile choose the drop-down and select EMR_EC2_DefaultRole.
13. Choose Next.
14. Under VPC select the available VPC.
15. Under Public IP address select Activated.
16. Under Instance subnets select at least two.
17. Choose Next.

18. Under EC2 Security groups select the default.
19. Choose Next.
20. Under Health reporting choose Basic.
21. Under Managed updates de-select Activated.
22. Choose Next.
23. Choose Submit.

10. Open a new browser tab or window. Navigate to the AWS Tutorials and Samples web page.
11. On the page, in the second list of downloads, find PHP – php.zip. Download the sample PHP application to your computer.
You should now have a file called php.zip.
12. Return to the Elastic Beanstalk console tab.
13. Choose Upload and deploy.
14. Choose Choose file, navigate to and select the php.zip file that you downloaded, and choose Open.
15. Choose Deploy.
The application deploys to the environment using all of the cloud resources Elastic Beanstalk provisioned.
16. To see your PHP website, in the left navigation pane, choose Go to environment.
The web application opens in a new tab.

17. Return to the AWS Management Console tab.
18. Choose the Services menu, locate the Compute services, and choose EC2.
19. In th left navigation pane, under Network & Security, choose Key Pairs.
20. Choose Create key pair.
21. For Name, enter CFLearner
22. Choose Create key pair.
23. When the download window opens, choose Cancel. You do not need to download the file.
24. Choose the Services menu, locate the Management & Governance services, and choose CloudFormation.
The Stacks list appears and displays the CloudFormation stacks that were created in your lab environment. Notice the stack
whose Description says AWS Elastic Beanstalk environment. This stack was created automatically when you deployed your
application through Elastic Beanstalk.
This demonstrates how the two services work together to create an environment to run your code.
25. Choose Create stack, and then choose With new resources (standard).
26. In the Prerequisite section, choose Use a sample template.
27. In the Select a sample template section, select WordPress blog.
WordPress is web software that you can use to create a website or blog. This template installs a highly available and scalable
WordPress deployment using an Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) database instance for storage.
28. Select Next.

29. For Stack name, enter WordPressStack
30. In the Parameters section, configure the following:
DBPassword: Enter Testing1
DBUser: Enter testadmin
KeyName: Choose the CFLearner key pair
1. Choose Next, and then choose Next again.
You will use the default stack options.
2. Review the stack configuration, and then choose Submit.
This initiates the deployment of the resources. You can watch the CloudFormation stack events on the Events tab as a
complete WordPress site is created.